10 meals under $10: The best cheap eats in Santa Cruz County
By Nik Altenberg, Fidel M. Soto and Amaya Edwards|December 5, 2025|Tags: affordability, Amaya Edwards, Featured, Fidel M. Soto, food, guides, Nik Altenberg, Noticias Watsonville


Yan Flower’s lunch special is a Downtown Santa Cruz favorite for in-the-know locals on a budget. (Nik Altenberg — Santa Cruz Local)


SANTA CRUZ COUNTY >> Is it possible to eat out for under $10 – including tax and tip – in Santa Cruz County? With rising food prices, unstable and changing availability of food assistance and the continuing cost-of-living crisis in our county, Santa Cruz Local set out to find the best deals for cheap meals under $10.


We created this list based on price, quality and ambience, and did not include chain restaurants in our search. Our reporters taste tested the food to bring you this guide.


The Bagelry — always great prices
320 A Cedar St., Santa Cruz, 1636 Seabright Ave., Santa Cruz, and 4763 Soquel Drive, Soquel.




The Bagelry has been at its Cedar Street location since 1977 and you can tell from the interior, in the best way. (Nik Altenberg — Santa Cruz Local)


The Bagelry is a classic local business with three locations. They’ve been around since the 1970s, making bagels and offering a range of spreads, schmears and sandwiches, and bags of bagels to-go (including day olds at a discount). Every menu item comes on the bagel of your choice and there are 16 to choose from, including a gluten free bagel. Most of the options on the menu are under $6. 


I got a Pink Flamingo (blended lox and cream cheese) and added capers and sprouts. With tax and a 20% tip my total was $8.43. One thing I love about The Bagelry is they do not skimp, the bagel was piled high with sprouts. My go-to order for a while was a scrambagel — it’s a nice choice if you’re looking for a hot breakfast. With cheese and bacon that would come out to $9.09 including tax and 20% tip. 




With coffee from $2.60 to $3.30 for small to large to-go cups, this place is by far one of the most affordable breakfast spots. The Downtown Santa Cruz location has the best ambience of the three spots, with cozy indoor booth seating and an outdoor patio. It can get a little busy at peak breakfast time though, especially on the weekends, but the line moves fast. 


—Nik Altenberg


Stay informed on Santa Cruz County’s biggest issues.
Santa Cruz Local’s newsletter breaks down complex local topics and shows residents how to get involved.
Email address: 
Your email address


La Misma — student discount
15 East Beach St., Watsonville.




La Misma offers a student discount lunchtime on weekdays. (Fidel M. Soto — Noticias Watsonville)


This one is especially for students. While La Misma is also known for good prices, their student discount makes lunch extra affordable. Monday to Friday from 12-2 p.m. students can get three tacos for $6 with each additional taco $1. 


—Fidel M. Soto


Pajaro Food Center — affordable Mexican food
307 Salinas Road, Pajaro.




The Pajaro Food Center is a grocery store with a taquería inside. (Fidel M. Soto — Noticias Watsonville)


Over the river in Monterey County, the Pajaro Food Center offers a taqueria inside the grocery store. With a plate of tacos for $7.99, you can eat for a $10 bill if you put $1.31 change after tax into the tip jar. Everything on the menu is reasonably priced, with a torta, burrito or quesadilla at $8.50, fajitas for $9.99 and enchiladas for $11.99. 


—Fidel M. Soto


Pleasure Pizza — ‘dollar’ Tuesdays
1415 Pacific Ave., Santa Cruz, and 800 41st Ave., Opal Cliffs.




Pleasure Pizza’s ‘dollar Tuesday’ slices are now $2.50. (Amaya Edwards — Santa Cruz Local/CatchLight Local)


Pleasure Pizza offers $2.50 slices of cheese pizza on Tuesdays. It used to be “dollar Tuesdays” with slices for $1 but you can’t get anything for a dollar anymore. I went and grabbed two slices which would come out to $5. Not too greasy and the perfect size slices. If you’re into ranch on the side like me, try to bring an extra $0.75. The vibe in the shop on Pacific Avenue is like walking into a warm hug with cool music playing and laidback staff. They also have a $7 wing special on Wednesdays, too. 


—Amaya Edwards


Ranch Milk Market — hidden gem of a taqueria
1 South Green Valley Road, Freedom.




Ranch Milk Market has a sports bar vibe but it’s a gas station convenience store, and a taquería. (Fidel M. Soto — Noticias Watsonville)




Ranch Milk Market is a unique, family-owned spot. According to its website it used to be known for pasteurizing and selling local milk. Now, it’s a taquería and tap house inside a gas station convenience store. It has high tables and stools, beers on tap and the tacos were good. Four tacos are $7.99, or an even $10 bill if you tip a remaining $1.25 after taxes or a bit over $10 if you tip 20%.


The eatery is clean and casual, and everything is reasonably priced. There’s a bean and cheese burrito for $5.71 and a breakfast quesadilla for $7.79. 


—Fidel M. Soto


Sushi Market Sprouts — affordable, high-quality sushi
300 7th Ave., Live Oak.




Sushi Market Sprouts has restaurant quality sushi rolls for grocery store prices. (Nik Altenberg — Santa Cruz Local)




This low-key sushi market and Japanese boutique is a popular spot and the rolls are limited so it’s advisable to arrive when they open at 3 p.m. if you want to choose from all the options. The shop is open until the rolls sell out and the sushi is made fresh every morning. Capitola sushi restaurant KAITO (which also has very reasonable prices) has the same owners. The rolls start at $7.50 for a California roll, though most are in the $8 to $12 range.


There is one adult-size chair and one kid-size chair and a small side table in front, in the middle of a succulent garden. It’s also a good option if you want to grab the sushi before heading to the beach.


—Nik Altenberg


Staff of Life — hot bar, hot deal
906 East Lake Ave., Watsonville, and 1266 Soquel Ave, Santa Cruz.




Staff of Life’s hot food bar is a popular option for ready-to-go lunch and dinner. (Nik Altenberg — Santa Cruz Local) 


Perhaps the best-kept secret for an affordable dinner is Staff of Life’s hot food bar. The prices are marked down presumably to help them sell out before the end of the day. Hot bar food and soups are discounted 40% after 5:30 p.m. at the Santa Cruz location and after 4 p.m. (except on Thursdays) at the Watsonville location. That means the daily made food comes in at $7.90 per pound, as it isn’t customary to tip your cashier but taxes are charged. 


Sushi at the Santa Cruz location is discounted 50% after 7:30 p.m. and there is a salad bar as well, but it doesn’t get a discount, remaining at $11.99 per pound. 


The food is good, it tastes like a home-cooked meal — from someone who’s a good cook — because it isn’t too heavy and the ingredients taste high quality. I like that the hot bar has a vegetarian side, including vegan options, and a side with meat dishes. I loaded up one of the small containers with mashed potatoes, beef stroganoff, butternut squash and a couple creamy tortellini and it was just under a pound — plenty for a small dinner and still well under $10.




The Staff of Life in Midtown has a large covered outdoor seating area with a calm, pleasant ambience. The Watsonville location has a smaller, uncovered area with tables and chairs. It borders the parking lot so it feels more like an area outside a grocery store whereas the Midtown patio feels like it could be a hipster beer garden.


—Nik Altenberg


Taquería Delicias 2 — daily specials
130 East Lake Ave., Watsonville.




Taquería Delicias 2 is a local favorite for affordable meals. (Fidel M. Soto — Noticias Watsonville)


One of the most popular places to eat is Taquería Delicias, located in downtown Watsonville and known for affordable prices.




Burritos are $4.99, or $8.50 for a super burrito, before tax.They offer a daily special for $8.99 before tax. On Mondays, they sell two tacos, rice, and beans; on Tuesdays, ribs with salsa, rice, beans and nopales; and on Wednesdays, ranchero steak. One of the favorites is the chicken caldo, available Monday to Friday for $9.99 plus tax and tip.


—Fidel M. Soto


Taquería La Katrina — taco Tuesdays
1719 Mission St., Santa Cruz.




Taquería La Katrina is located in a strip mall on Mission Street. (Nik Altenberg — Santa Cruz Local)


This deal is only for two hours a week and aside from it, you’re not going to find much on the menu for under $10. But 4-6 p.m. on Tuesdays the al pastor tacos are $2.50 each. I ordered two and it came out to $6.49 with tax and 20% tip and included complimentary chips and salsa. It was more than enough for lunch — they weren’t little street tacos like I was expecting. They were hefty, maybe a little too hefty. The flavor was rich but they were a fair bit greasier than I would have preferred.




The location is in the Palm Center strip mall on Mission Street, the interior is indeed cantina or cafeteria-like, it’s not very cozy. But the vibes were great and the owner, who took my order, was very friendly. The spot is fairly new, not a prime location for foot traffic, and has never been very busy when I’ve gone in. 


This deal might be temporary but check their Instagram for updates and other deals, including a discount for students, as it appears the owner is working hard to get new people in the door.


—Nik Altenberg


Yan Flower — lunch special
617 Pacific Ave., Santa Cruz.




Joraine McKellar, right, said the Yan Flower lunch special comes with great portions. (Amaya Edwards — Santa Cruz Local/CatchLight Local)


Chinese restaurant Yan Flower in Downtown Santa Cruz offers a nice respite away from the hustle and bustle. There’s a free parking lot which is a huge plus in my book, and upon entering you’re greeted by a fish tank and warm, inviting decorations. 




I went to order the chicken chow mein from their lunch special around 1 p.m. and was pleasantly surprised with the amount of seating and chill vibes. The chicken chow mein itself comes with steamed white rice and a delicious, crunchy spring roll. The plate comes with a great portion, coming to a total of $9.22 including 20% tip.


—Amaya Edwards


Honorable mention — Steamer Lane Supply
698 West Cliff Drive, Santa Cruz.




Steamer Lane Supply is our Honorable Mention in this guide because while most items put you over $10, the food is delicious and tastes like high quality ingredients, making it an affordable option and a great deal. (Nik Altenberg — Santa Cruz Local)


This spot is a gem of West Cliff Drive. It’s located in the same building as the public restroom but don’t worry, it’s very clean. The kitchen is a food truck parked next to the storefront, which is tiny, perhaps their presumably low rent contributes to the great prices. 


When this spot first opened I had the pulled pork quesadilla, and was disappointed. At the time it felt on the pricier side but it appears that while prices have shot up everywhere somehow it seems Steamer Supply has held steady. Today at $12.75 before tax it’s a great deal.


Their menu is small but mighty and while most of the items put you over $10, the quality of the ingredients is great. While not the cheapest place listed in this guide, Steamer Lane Supply is certainly one of the best deals for quality and really, very delicious food. Plus, you cannot beat the ambience as the place is right on West Cliff in Lighthouse Field State Park. Outdoor seating only.


—Nik Altenberg


Runner ups
Corralitos Market & Sausage Co., Corralitos. This legendary meat shop has some of the most delicious cold cuts, sausages and other meat products you’ll ever try. They also offer sausage sandwiches for $8.99 or $9.99 with 15 sausages to choose from. Customers can dress their own sando with self-serve condiments. Visit site.


Costco, Santa Cruz. This guide wouldn’t be complete without mentioning the famous $1.50 hot dogs at Costco. However, because a membership is needed and the public is no longer allowed to eat at the food court, it’s a runner up. Visit site.


Jack’s Hamburgers, Santa Cruz. This no frills, longtime burger joint offers burgers from $8.25 before tax and have a classic hamburger, vegetarian patties, a salmon burger and more. Visit site.


AJ’s Market, Aptos. This spot inside a gas station is a classic for Cabrillo College students as it’s just up the road from campus. A breakfast burrito or a veggie burger are $8.99. Most of the menu is under $15 and they offer burgers, burritos, fish and chips, falafel and gyros, among other items. Visit site. 


Charlie Hong Kong, Santa Cruz. Most of the menu will put you over $10 but a Santa Cruz Local reader mentioned that the chili sesame noodle salad is an affordable option coming in at $10.93 after tax and tip. This spot is a favorite for vegans and vegetarians. Visit site.


Pretty Good Advice, Soquel and Santa Cruz. Nearly making the cut for this guide, Pretty Good Advice is worth a mention especially for the vegetarians and vegans out there. The restaurant has an entirely vegetarian menu. The soups will come out to under $10 after tax and tip, they may not be filling enough for lunch. The sandwiches and burgers are $9.50 to $11 before tax and are pretty good. Visit site.


—Nik Altenberg


Meals for two or more people
Pizza My Heart, Santa Cruz, Soquel, Capitola, Aptos. This Santa Cruz classic pizza joint has a deal Monday to Thursday: a large one-topping pizza is $22. Including tax and 20% tip, that’s $9.52 per person if split by three people or $7.24 per person if split by four. Visit site.


Phil’s Fish Market, Castroville. This one’s out of the county but worth a mention. The menu is generally pretty expensive but if you want to go to check out this classic, low key seafood restaurant, you could split a quart of clam chowder with a friend for $10.78 per person. Visit site.


Taqueria Santa Cruz, Westside Santa Cruz and Downtown Santa Cruz. My favorite item on the menu is the carne en su jugo, literally “meat in its juices.” Split the size large of this rich, filling soup that comes with hot corn tortillas with a friend for $8.56 per person including tax and tip. Visit site. 


—Nik Altenberg