On-Campus Food Resources
Emergency food assistance
Meal swipe request form
Short-term assistance is available to any currently enrolled degree-seeking student facing immediate food insecurity. Emergency assistance is available via the request form up to twice a year. If this program sounds right for your needs, please fill out the Swipes for Slugs request form.


Free food resources around campus
Outside view of Redwood Free Market
Redwood Free Market
Also known as the Basic Needs Hub, Redwood Free Market (RFM) is here to help reduce basic needs insecurity by offering free access to nutritious food and connecting students with valuable campus and community resources.


Students can access a wide range of essentials, including fresh produce, dry goods, personal care items, CalFresh application support, meal kits, diaper assistance, and more.


Location: Rachel Carson College Café (formerly College Eight Café)


Hours:
Monday: 2–5 p.m.
Tuesday–Thursday: 9 a.m.–1 p.m. & 2–5 p.m.
Wednesday (Graduate Students Only): 2–5 p.m.
Friday: 9 a.m.–12 p.m.


Getting Started:


Create a PantrySoft account before your first visit
Bring your own bag
Sign in at the entrance
Shop for what you need—it’s that simple
Stay connected and get the latest updates by following Redwood Free Market on Instagram


Check what’s in stock by visiting PantryPal


Students outside of the Cowell Coffee Shop
Cowell Coffee Shop
Cowell Coffee Shop is a non-transactional, student-run café committed to food justice, mutual aid, and hands-on learning. The café fosters a deeper understanding of food sovereignty through student leaders who connect their passion for food to broader issues of economic justice and community empowerment.


Enjoy free coffee, salads, soups, bagels, baked goods, and other seasonal and culturally relevant dishes—available to all UCSC students.


Location: Near Cowell/Stevenson Dining Hall


Hours: Monday – Friday, 10 a.m.–3:30 p.m.


How does it work?


Create a PantrySoft Account before your first visit
Sign in at the entrance with your student ID number
Grab your food and enjoy!
Get involved:


The café is operated by student staff members and interns. Email cowellcoffeeshop@ucsc.edu to learn more about current internship opportunities and how to apply.


Host a meeting or event:


To book the space for a meeting or event, please fill out our Programming Request Form.


Stay connected: Follow Cowell Coffee Shop on Instagram and visit the CSC Linktree for updates, event notifications, and more.


student managing the Produce Pop-Up
Produce Pop-Up
Produce Pop-Up is a twice-weekly organic farmstand open to all members of the UC Santa Cruz community. The program is dedicated to increasing access to fresh, healthy, and affordable organic produce, with offerings sourced from the UCSC Farm and other local organic growers.


Locations:


Wednesdays: Quarry Plaza (moving to McHenry Library in January 2026)
Fridays: Science & Engineering Library 
Hours: 11 a.m.–3 p.m. during the academic year.


Closed during the summer.


How does it work?


Just stop by during open hours to browse and pick up fresh produce! Items are available at low or no cost to support student food access.


Stay updated on produce availability and locations by following Produce Pop-Up Instagram. For questions, email ucscproducepopup@gmail.com or visit the Center for Agroecology website.


UCSC CalFresh Logo
CalFresh outreach program
The CalFresh Outreach Program (CFOP) is a state-funded initiative designed to help students and community members access CalFresh benefits. Funded by the California Department of Social Services (CDSS) and implemented in partnership with county social services offices, CFOP offers one-on-one support throughout the entire application and renewal process.


Our team provides assistance with completing the CalFresh application, gathering required verification documents, navigating the 30-day review period, and managing benefit renewals—ensuring you feel supported every step of the way.


Take our CalFresh Pre-Screener Survey to see if you might be eligible.


For more information regarding CalFresh please visit our CalFresh page or email calfresh@ucsc.edu.


Redwood Free Market Pantry
Terry Freitas Commons
Terry Freitas Commons at John R. Lewis College


A satellite location of Redwood Free Market, Terry Freitas Commons (TFC) provides free groceries and essentials to support food access for students on the east side of campus.


Location: At John R. Lewis College, across from the College Nine & John R. Lewis College Community Garden


Hours: Follow the Terry Freitas Commons Instagram account for current hours and updates


How it works:


Create a PantrySoft Account before your first visit
Bring your student ID and a reusable bag
Sign in at the entrance
Shop for your items—staff may limit traffic inside as needed to keep the space welcoming and safe
For updates, follow Terry Freitas Commons on Instagram.


Additional campus pantries
Explore more campus locations offering free groceries and basic needs items to students.


Women’s Center Basic Needs Pantry 
Housed within the Women’s Center, this pantry provides access to free personal care items for any student in need.


Visit the Women’s Center website


Ethnic Resource Center’s Food Pantry
Located at the Ethnic Resource Center, this pantry supports students with shelf-stable groceries and other food access resources.


Visit the Resource Centers website


Lionel Cantu Queer Center Pantry
Hosted at the Cantú Queer Center, this pantry offers free grocery items and snacks to all UCSC students.


Visit the Cantú Queer Center website


Family Student Housing Pantry
Located in the Family Student Housing community, this pantry offers free groceries and household essentials.


Visit the Family Student Housing website