Dietary Needs and Allergies


Whether you have a food allergy, religious food preferences, a vegan/vegetarian diet, or simply need assistance with your food selections, we can provide the resources to help you make delicious choices, safely and easily.




Food allergies
UCSC Dining uses colored icons to identify foods containing common allergens–including the top nine as defined by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA): peanut, tree nut, soy, wheat, milk, egg, fish, shellfish, and sesame. These icons appear on our online menus and on signs in dining halls and cafes to help you make informed choices. 


According to the FDA, tree nut allergens include: almonds, walnuts (Black, California, Japanese, English, and Persian), Brazil nuts, cashews, filberts/hazelnuts, macadamia nuts, pecans, pine nuts, and pistachios. While coconut is not classified as a tree nut by the FDA, it may still be listed in ingredients. You can review full ingredient details, including coconut, using our online menu tool.


Shared kitchens and cross-contact
Our food is prepared in shared kitchens where we use milk, eggs, peanuts, tree nuts, soy, fish, shellfish, wheat, sesame, and other allergens. We also use an avocado oil pan release spray in all operations.


While we take steps to minimize cross-contact, we are not an allergen-free facility. If you have allergy concerns or need assistance with navigating your options, please speak with a manager or our Nutrition Specialist. We’re here to help ensure a safe and inclusive dining experience.


A system of icons is used on the online menus, and on signs at dining halls and cafes, to indicate the most common food allergens and other dietary choices.


Nut icon 
Contains peanut


Gluten friendly icon
Gluten friendly


Egg icon
Contains egg


Shellfish icon
Contains shellfish


Sesame icon
Contains sesame


Vegetarian icon
Vegetarian


Halal icon
Halal


Pork icon
Contains pork


Tree nut icon
Contains tree nut


Milk icon
Contains milk


Soy Icon
Contains soy


Fish Icon
Contains fish


Alcohol icon
Contains alcohol


Vegan Icon
Vegan


Beef icon
Contains beef


Wheat icon
Contains wheat


Nutrition
Interactive nutrition facts for all of our meals are available through the online menus. You can use the nutrition calculator to check calorie counts and plan a whole day’s eating. Additionally, each dining hall displays printed signs next to each entree or side dish identifying ingredients, nutrition content, allergens, and vegan or vegetarian choices.


Dining hall worker serving food
Tips for students with food allergies or special diets
Consult the online menu


The online allergen filter can show you the menu items that do or do not contain specific allergens for each dining hall location. Students can meet with the UCSC Dining Nutrition Specialist to review how to use the online tools to best meet their needs. 
Meet with a dining hall manager


Dining hall managers are knowledgeable about the options available and can show you which foods will work with your diet.
Dining hall accommodations
We work with students who have food allergies or intolerances, and other special dietary needs, to make sure they get the most from their dining experience.


UC Santa Cruz is committed to access and inclusion in its campus programs and services. Dining Services works in close partnership with students and the Disability Resource Center (DRC) to ensure equal access to UCSC Dining facilities.


Students with medical and/or disability-related concerns regarding food and dining access are encouraged to meet with the UCSC Dining Food Safety and Nutrition Specialist. The Nutrition Specialist works with students to discuss their specific needs and determine how to best address their concerns. Accommodations to dining services may require collaboration between the student, dining staff, and the Disability Resource Center, and documentation from a qualified professional to be considered.


Religious dietary guidelines
Certain religious practices restrict dietary intake and necessitate close attention to recipe ingredients. The most commonly restricted foods are certain types of meat, fish, dairy, and alcohol. We use colored icons to help guests identify the use of such foods.


We label foods containing direct sources of alcohol, such as alcohol-based extracts and cooking wine. However, items made with wine vinegars are not labeled as containing alcohol. For more information on specific ingredients or vinegars, please consult the complete ingredient listings online.


Vegetarian and vegan resources
UCSC Dining offers vegan and vegetarian options at every meal. Our community is composed of those with varied dietary lifestyles; we are keenly aware of this and work hard to offer a wide selection of delicious vegetarian, dairy-free, and vegan dining options at every meal. Check out the menus to see what we’re serving today!


Vegetarian and vegan definitions:


Our vegetarian options follow lacto-ovo vegetarian guidelines as defined by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the National Institute of Health (NIH). These meals do not contain meat, poultry, or seafood, but may include eggs, dairy, or honey—ingredients sourced without ending the life of the producing animal. Vegan options are entirely plant-based and contain no animal-sourced products, including eggs, milk, honey, or animal-sourced gelatin.